Open in app

Sign up

Sign in

Write

Sign up

Sign in

![](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fill:64:64/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)

Mastodon

# Best gifts for writers, according to the Medium community

## We surveyed over 1,000 Medium writers; here are the best gifts for writers
in 2024, according to writers

![Scott
Lamb](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fill:88:88/1*0Ye7S84nA3tdGyVSxc_Q-g.png)

![The Medium
Blog](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fill:48:48/1*AXYe3ZfLJvIjSW7fD3Eakg.jpeg)

Scott Lamb

·

Follow

Published in

The Medium Blog

·

7 min read

·

4 days ago

\--

139

Listen

Share

Image designed by Jason Combs

Buying the right gift for the writer in your life can be a daunting
proposition.

Writers are great, sure, but can I be honest? We’re a little much sometimes.
Exacting. Set in our ways. We are opinionated, often about the tiniest
details. We want, say, a notebook — but it needs to have dots, not lines, and
open flat, but not be too bulky, and ideally the pages are perforated, and
also it needs to have the paper that absorbs the ink of the very rare pen that
is our absolute favorite. Frankly, writers can be kind of exhausting. No
wonder many people get their writer friend a gift card and call it a day.

To help guide you, we surveyed over 1,000 Medium writers about what gifts
_they_ most want to receive this year, from notebooks to pens to writing
subscriptions. They went into detail — surprise! — and shared what unique
gifts they love and what they hope they’ll get as gifts this year. Here are
the results of the survey, in a handy best-of gift guide format. Happy
gifting.

# Tl;dr: The best of the best gifts for writers

I’m going to assume some of you are reading this at the very last minute as
you realize that you’ve neglected to get a gift for the writer in your life in
time for the family gathering/Secret Santa event that’s coming up.

We’ve got you—here are the best gift ideas from our survey:

  * **Best notebook:** the Moleskine Classic Notebook
  * **Best pen:** the Pilot Precise V5
  * **Best book about writing:** “On Writing” by Stephen King
  * **Best writing subscription:** Medium

For those of you with more time left in the holiday season to plan or more
specific needs for the writer you have in mind, here’s a breakdown of the top
five gifts by vote in each category:

· Notebooks  
· Books about writing  
· Pens  
· Writing software  
· Writing-related subscriptions  
· Keyboards  
· Writing accessories  
· Bonus gift: time and recognition

We’ve also added a wildcard option for each section — not the most popular
selection, but a random unique vote outside the top picks we thought was fun.

# Notebooks

Writers have a thing about notebooks. Even for those who mostly publish
online, nothing replaces a physical notebook for scribbling ideas, doodling
while your mind wanders, or capturing that passing-but-perfectly-formed
thought. Here are the top five notebooks from the survey.

**Top writers’ choice:** Moleskine Classic Notebook****(359 votes)

Photo by Alin Luna on Unsplash

Probably the most widely available classic notebook on the market. Moleskine
almost defines the category for a lot of people; if you’ve received a notebook
in the past as a gift, chances are good that it was a Moleskine. Fountain pen
aficionados avoid Moleskines, as the paper isn’t great with fountain ink, but
for your regular scribbler, a Moleskine notebook is a useful and thoughtful
gift.

**Other favorites:**

  * **Leuchtturm1917 Hardcover Notebook Classic (A5)**(215 votes)
  * **Midori MD Notebook (A5)**(79 votes)
  * **Field Notes Original Kraft Memo**(77 votes)
  * **Apica Premium C.D. Notebook (A5)**(69 votes)

**Wild card response:**

> “Good ole Dollarama (Dollar Store) notebooks.”

# Books about writing

**Top writers’ choice:** “On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft” by Stephen King
(216 votes)

Photo by Kelly Brito on Unsplash

I bought a copy of this book during a recent trip to Edinburgh, Scotland, and
it doesn’t disappoint. Even if Stephen King’s fiction isn’t your cup of tea
(which I think is sad for you), his thoughts on the approach to writing and
creativity generally are worth your time. This was the overwhelming favorite
book gift idea in the survey. And what writer isn’t also a book lover?

**Other favorites:**

  * **“Keep Going: 10 Ways to Stay Creative in Good Times and Bad” by Austin Kleon** (187 votes)
  * **“Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life” by Anne Lamott**(116 votes)
  * **“The War of Art” by Steven Pressfield**(105 votes)
  * **“The Artist’s Way” by Julia Cameron**(88 votes)

**Wild card response:**

> “Several Short Sentences About Writing” by Verlyn Klinkenborg

# Pens

**Top writers’ choice:** Pilot Precise V5 (146 votes)

Photo by Kelly Sikkema on Unsplash

This was far and away the favorite gift choice for Medium writers — a little
surprising as it’s also available for a little over $1 USD per pen from most
online retailers. While not the fanciest of writing tools, it’s a reliable
workhorse with a nice flow and feels like a clear step up from a ballpoint,
though that was the #2 favorite from our survey.

**Other favorites:**

  * **Zebra Ballpoint**(99 votes)
  * **Faber-Castell Grip**(78 votes)
  * **Platinum 3776**(77 votes)
  * **Pilot Metropolitan Collection Fountain Pen**(73 votes)

**Wild card response:**

> “The one I stole from someone else because it writes so nice.”

# Writing software

**Top writers’ choice:** Medium (441 votes)

Image designed by Jason Combs

If you’re not writing in a notebook, what’s the best software to write, online
or offline? Our survey says…Medium!

We’re getting into murky territory here; I can’t pretend to be impartial about
this choice. Luckily, you don’t have to take my word for it: the writers in
our survey chose it above a lot of other dedicated writing software.

**Other favorites:**

  * **Microsoft Word**(222 votes)
  * **Google Docs**(212 votes)
  * **Grammarly**(115 votes)
  * **Scrivener**(41 votes)

**Wild card response:**

> “Subscribing to the quiet company of midnight skies and the echoes of my own
> thoughts.”

# Writing-related subscriptions

**Top writers’ choice:** Medium (889 votes)

There you have it: If you’re a writer — or know a writer, or have even heard
of writing — then a Medium gift membership is the best subscription gift idea
out there. I don’t make the rules.

But seriously, this was pretty close to 100% of the votes we got on the survey
question for the best writing-based subscription. We love Medium, and we were
happy to see that our writers do, too.

**Other favorites:**

  * **Coursera**(58 votes)
  * **Skillshare**(34 votes)
  * **Masterclass**(17 votes)
  * **None (i.e., the best subscription is no subscription!)** (11 votes)

**Wild card response:**

> “Notion Subscription. I gather all my thoughts in Notion, then write a post
> from the gathered thoughts.”

# Keyboards

**Top writers’ choice:** Apple Magic Keyboard (310 votes)

Photo by Mitchel Lensink on Unsplash

Apple’s Magic Keyboard is a quieter, lower-profile keyboard, but works great
with Apple products, is available everywhere, and has a lower price point than
some of the other favorites. The other choices in this category are mechanical
keyboards with bigger, noisier, more tactical keys.

Basically, if you’re not going down the mechanical keyboard rabbit hole, this
keyboard is probably a great gift for the writer in your life.

**Other favorites:**

  * **Logitech Pop Icon Keys**(230 votes)
  * **Keychron K6**(61 votes)
  * **Keychron K3 Max**(54 votes)
  * **Epomaker TH80 Pro**(47 votes)

**Wild card response:**

> “Razer Huntsman V2”

# Writing accessories

**Top writers’ choice:** Coffee-warming mug (342 votes)

Photo by Stephen Andrews on Unsplash

This is really just a drink-warming mug. Coffee is an option, sure, but
writers who are partial to tea will also love one of these USB-charged warming
mugs to keep their morning beverage of choice warm while they type away (or
scrawl in their new notebook).

**Other favorites:**

  * **Mug with a clever saying on it**(196 votes)
  * **Footrest**(136 votes)
  * **Freedom (productivity app)**(106 votes)
  * **Vintage typewriter**(103 votes)

**Wild card response:**

> “Coffee, cream and sugar. Or pie.”

# Bonus gift: time and recognition

There was one thread I wanted to mention last — a gift, to be sure, but not
one you can buy and package up.

When we asked writers to tell us what the perfect gift would be, rather than
asking them to choose their favorite option from a category, they consistently
mentioned time and recognition as the things they most wanted more of.

Both of those gift ideas are tricky to give. Believe me, if I knew how to
package them up in a way you could gift, they would have been at the top of
the list. But you can think of all these options as a stand-in for time and
recognition: Better tools make writing easier, faster, and more rewarding.
(This may not be true for “mug with a clever saying on it,” but just go with
me here.) And the fact that you’re supporting your favorite writer with a gift
tailored to their passion is very validating to them.

The overwhelming thing this survey made clear was that established and
aspiring writers alike just want things that will help make the very weird
thing they do — sitting alone and writing words — that much easier and more
pleasant. Anything you can do to help them there will be the greatest gift of
all.

\--

\--

139

![The Medium
Blog](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fill:96:96/1*AXYe3ZfLJvIjSW7fD3Eakg.jpeg)

![The Medium
Blog](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fill:128:128/1*AXYe3ZfLJvIjSW7fD3Eakg.jpeg)

## Published in The Medium Blog

3.4M Followers

·Last published 1 day ago

The official Medium blog.

![Scott
Lamb](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fill:96:96/1*0Ye7S84nA3tdGyVSxc_Q-g.png)

![Scott
Lamb](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fill:128:128/1*0Ye7S84nA3tdGyVSxc_Q-g.png)

Follow

## Written by Scott Lamb

12.4K Followers

·230 Following

VP, Content @ Medium. I'm here to support people writing words on the
internet. Priors: BuzzFeed, YouTube, Salon.com

Follow

## Responses (139)

See all responses

Help

Status

About

Careers

Press

Blog

Privacy

Terms

Text to speech

Teams

